if your pet could talk what would it say
to you probably something like hey give
me some food or why are you watching so
much sports
give me some Animal Planet but there's
one animal that seems to have mastered
the art of human speech
that's right I'm talking about parrots
okay maybe I'm exaggerating a bit when I
say that these colorful birds have
mastered our language I mean it's not
like you can sit down to a cup of coffee
and discuss geopolitics with your parrot
they're mostly limited to repeating
short words or sometimes even phrases
but we humans have vocal cords teeth a
tongue and lifts to produce speech our
feathered friends however lack most of
that so how did they manage to pull off
the trick of imitating us all right to
answer this question I mean to answer
this question let's first compare how
exactly people and birds generate sounds
basically the structures used in speech
are the lungs trachea or windpipe and
the larynx which you might refer to as
your voice box after you breathe in the
lungs push air up through the windpipe
and it then passes through the voice box
this causes the vocal cords to vibrate
and they produce different sounds we
also mainly use our mouths to shape the
sounds of different words Birds on the
other hand don't have a larynx and with
vocal chords their voice box is called a
shrinks and it's located between the
windpipe and the lungs the shrinks is
just a hollow space with flexible walls
and by controlling the muscles of the
shrinks birds can produce and shape
sound each side of the shrinks can work
independently that's why birds can
produce two sounds at once people can do
that too but you saw like Bill Clinton
they can also breathe through one
chamber while continuously singing
through the other can you talk and
breathe at the same time well actually
no you can't but you can try and test
this out if you want anyways this rinks
in addition to some beak movement allows
birds to create and imitate sounds but
does it mean that all birds can speak
like humans
no not really parrots differ from other
birds because they have a rather thick
tongue unlike other birds they know how
to use it to shape sounds but the most
important thing that allows parrots to
be so good at imitating us is the way
their brain is designed according to dr.
Eric Jarvis the key brain region that
controls the muscles for vocalization is
the forebrain in his 2004 paper
Jarvis described a region of the
forebrain that's directly connected to
the voice muscles in both humans and
parrots with the help of those brain
circuits parrots learn new sounds and
then control their vocal muscles to
produce the sounds they learn animals
that aren't very good at vocal learning
don't have these 4 brain pathways dr.
Jarvis also studied a set of over 50
genes and found a similar pattern of
activity in the speech control centres
of several vocal learners including
humans
parrots songbirds and hummingbirds who
as you know hum because they don't know
the words and it's an old joke anyway
this means that humans and these bird
species use the same genes to speak and
sing but that's not the only thing we
have in common with parrots like us
these birds are really social creatures
with a natural desire to communicate in
the wild they create strong bonds with
each other pet birds however try to
interact with humans since they don't
have anyone of their own kind to talk to
so if you have a parrot you become their
flock they learn from their environment
and start mimicking their owners which
isn't as easy as it may seem
parrots mostly struggle with pronouncing
plosive consonants which are the sounds
we make by stopping the airflow with our
lips like the P or B sounds to name a
few since parrots don't have lips they
use the muscles in their windpipe to
trap air and then let it out in one
short burst perhaps the most famous
parrot who mastered human speech was
Alex dr. Irene Pepperberg got the
African Grey parrot from a Chicago pet
store in 1977 and decided to test his
learning abilities she trained him for
almost 30 years and she was a pretty
good
teacher Alex no about 150 words could
distinguish colors and shapes and couch
using small numbers what's more he
didn't just repeat the words but seemed
to understand their meaning
Alex used phrases like I love you and
I'm sorry not randomly but in the right
context and whenever the parrot wanted
some particularly yummy treat he wasn't
satisfied until his owner gave him
exactly what he asked for mm-hmm what a
smart birdie thanks to his amazing
language skills Alex even became a TV
celebrity appearing in some nature
programs and receiving gifts from his
adoring fans this Polly wants more than
some dumb cracker I tell you but parrots
aren't the only animals that can
astonish people with their speaking
skills in 1971 a married couple found a
baby seal just off the coast of Maine it
seemed like the animal had gotten
separated from its mom so they decided
to take him home they called him Hoover
because he gulped his food down like a
vacuum cleaner when Hoover got too big
they gave him away to the New England
Aquarium in Boston the couple told the
aquarium employees that they suspected
the seal could talk no one believed them
then but after a few years
Hoover started speaking more clearly his
vocabulary included a number of words
and phrases like hey hello there how are
ya get out of here get down and his own
name pretty impressive
another amazing case of an animal
talking without needing any training
happened in 1984 handlers at San Diego's
National Marine Mammal Foundation found
some mumbling coming from the tank where
whales and dolphins were kept at first
they thought it was just the sound of
two people talking in the distance but
later on they discovered it was actually
a beluga whale named Ngoc warbling in a
human-like voice that was several
octaves lower than typical whale calls
marine biologist dr. Sam Ridgeway
believe that not learned to imitate
humans by listening to them speaking to
each other
Ridgeway and his team learned that the
whale produced the sounds by
increasing the pressure of the ear
within his nasal cavities and then
shaped it using his phonic lips which
are kind of like a voice box in their
nose but after a few years now probably
got bored of copying people and went
back to emitting high-pitched wheel
noises
ya can't blame him there one more
aquatic mammal famous for mimicking
human-like sounds is wiki this female
orca whale lives in the marine land
aquarium in France a team of trainers
worked with her and pretty soon she
learned to say a few words like hello
bye-bye and one two three
when wiki talks it doesn't actually
sound like a human voice but it's
definitely not hard to tell what she's
trying to say she can also imitate a
wolf's howl an elephant's trumpeting and
the sound of a creaking door wiki is a
really fast learner
she sometimes only needs just one try to
reproduce a new sound from the Giants of
the sea to those on land meat Koscheck
the talking elephant who imitates human
speech using his trunk in 2004 his
caretakers from south korea's Everland
zoo
attempts to copy what they were saying
they think that Koscheck felt a bit
lonely because at the time he was
isolated from other elephants and
interacted only with humans
Koscheck learned how to say good know
hello and sit down in korean of course
later on a team of researchers from the
university of vienna played 47
recordings of his imitations to native
Korean speakers and most of them easily
understood what Koscheck was saying and
he did it all for peanuts and back to
the world of pets siberian huskies are
also well known to be pretty chatty with
their owners taking after their wolf
ancestors they howl and whine to
communicate with those they consider a
part of their pack and sometimes the
noises these dogs make can be very close
to human speech the most famous talking
husky was Mishka who became a real
Internet star she could say something
that sounded a lot like I love you and
some other short phrases Mishka also had
an ear for music
and loved howling along with her
favorite songs when people first saw
videos ever they instantly fell in love
so would you want to have a pet who
could talk let me know down in the
comments don't forget to give this video
a like share it with your friends and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]